---
title: "The Top 10 Best Fitness Apps"
date: "2021-10-22"
author: "Jack Cousins"
hero_image: "./top-10-fitness-apps.png"
hero_alt: "The Top 10 Best Fitness Apps"
---

## **What Makes a Good Fitness App?**

Health and fitness apps are taking the world by storm with their advanced
capabilities in assisting people with weight loss tracking and physical
activity. Good fitness apps are tailored to their users, offering personalised
experiences including custom workouts and meal plans to ensure that they are
getting the best out of their mobile application. Many are paired with wearable
technology, such as an Apple Watch, to assist with monitoring any activity
including the duration of workout sessions and through heart rate monitoring.

In 2021, apps offer incredible functionalities replacing the need for in-person
appointments. With the help of your smartphone, you can have access to the most
tailored information to help you with losing weight, by simply answering
questions through your app to offer the best meal plans for your fitness goals.
As a personal trainer would give, you can also have access to workout routines
to help with home workouts which are becoming more popular in modern days.

Fitness apps offer all of these features in the form of workout videos, that are
often categorised into sections such as strength training, cardio, sculpt or
HIIT (high-intensity interval training). Through workout apps, you can also be
given unique training plans that will enhance your chances of achieving your
goals.

## **Why Are Fitness Apps Important?**

The accessibility of mobile apps is pushing the growing amount of individuals
downloading apps in this industry. Many people don’t have the time or can’t
afford the high costs of finding a personal fitness professional to help them on
their journey, and are unsure on specific nutritional information in order to
lose weight. This is why fitness apps are so handy. They become an umbrella for
your workout plan, generating information on what you should be eating, and
allowing you to log stats relating to your physical activity easily.

Many apps in this industry are also becoming more and more involved in
connecting their users. For a world being introduced to a much more digital way
of life, this demand is becoming more important. You then have the chance to
train and connect with people with similar goals, as you would in a physical
location such as the gym. For people who don’t have the time or option to access
these groups in person, it can be a chance for them to stay motivated on their
journey.

## **Our Top 10 List of Best Fitness Apps**

### **1. Nike Training Club**

The [Nike Training Club](https://www.nike.com/gb/ntc-app) app offers various
fitness features, such as providing nutrition advice, home workouts and advice
from experts in the health industry. This mobile app thrives on community, and
you will have access to weekly to monthly training plans led by professional
Nike trainers, personalised to your fitness targets.

### **2. Strava**

[Strava](https://www.strava.com/) is an app providing tracking of physical
activity undertaken by its users, specifically built for runners and cyclists.
This mobile application is admired for its incredible features using just the
free version. The offer allows you to monitor workouts and gain stats each time
you log your physical activity.

Strava also incorporates social networking features, by connecting users with
each other to find people with like-minded goals.

### **3. 8fit**

This fitness app offers personalised workout and meal plans through a
subscription service.[ 8fit](https://8fit.com/) is dedicated to pushing that
both physical activity and a balanced diet are key to unlocking a healthy
lifestyle. The app has 30 million downloads and counting, and also offers
self-care guidance to help users navigate their way through their fitness
journey.
